The Game of "Investigator and the Mastermind": 


"The perpetrator of a crime will bring something into the crime scene  and leave with something from it, 

		and that both can be used as forensic evidence." 

		      (The Locard's exchange principle)"


"Any attempt to remove evidence or run with it, will in 2 of 3 cases create new evidence. 

		But, hey, don't let that stop you!" 

		       (Takeshi Kovacs)

--------

The Mastermind has commited a HEINOUS CRIME!!! 

Presidents daughter's favorite puppy has been stolen!!! 

Whole country is laughing now! Is there nothing saint or impossible for Him?! 

This must be answered! President requests only the best from the police now!

It's "well known" that the crime is performed by the Mastermind, 
	yet how he's exactly connected to the crime is higly elusive! 

Police assigns it's best-of-the-best Investigator on it.. obviously YOU!

Mastermind, obviously, has mixed feeling on this and intends always stay 1 step ahead of the police work 
	by trying to mislead the Investigator by tampering with already existing clues and suspects 
		that lead to Him... if He learns about it, that is!	

Let the chase begin!


Game's objective (!!! drumroll !!!): 

	Will YOU catch the Mastermind or no? 

	Will the speed of YOUR work be enough to catch the Mastermind 
		OR he'll always will remain "one step ahead" and on the loose?



Setup of the game:

	Mastermind plans his escape route, but as always evidences and other potential suspects pile up along the way!

	Game should look like:

	Investigator...{Clues/Suspects}...Mastermind



Flow of the game:

	Game is played in rounds, with Investigator starting.

	Initially Investigator will process all the available Clues in front of him to reach the next suspect! (ie. x = x / 2). This will ALWAYS remove AT LEAST 1 Clue(s) from the game.
	If the suspect in front of the Investigator is Mastermind (ie. x == 1), the game ends and Mastermind has finally to answer for it's crime! Game ends. See ending "Investigator wins".
	If the suspect in front of the Investigator is NOT Mastermind, the Investigator will interrogate the suspect!

	Interrogation:
		Police questions the suspect (2x) ("Let's take a step back. Tell us what you know about ...!". 
			Evidence is "shifted" to the right side and new Clue appears at the beginning of the list

		Police crossreferences the suspect (+x) ("So if I understand you correctly, everything was like this...? Did you meet or talk to anybody...?")
			Start adding together new Evidence list, with old list, using additive principle, we update knowledge on clues/suspects.
			Chain of these events might create "a police tip", that advances Mastermind position and leaves a new clue behind him. (as if that would help him!)

		"Domino effect" (+1) -> "It's not me! But I know who did it!"
			Any Suspects now in front of Investigator  become Clues and a new Suspect shows at the end of Clues list.

		Police work continues!

	Mastermind (during cross-reference step):
		if through interrogation during police cross-reference Mastermind receives "a tip", he'll try to cover up a bit more, by leaving a new Clue, behind him and advancing by 1 position.
		During police cross reference we assume the clues / suspects in-between Investigator and Mastermind will be changed in a fashion unknown to Investigator,
		BUT we know that it'll be that these "news" will be passed only from suspects from one to another. If these news reach Mastermind, it's called "receiving a tip"
		Mastermind DOES NOT info on all the cross-references, unless 

	Crossreferencing the suspects:
		... (adding binary numbers) ... 

	The "domino effect":
		"It's as easy as bringing down one or all of them, but the alignment has to be right." (Takeshi Kovacs)

Endings:

"Investigator wins": 

	Crime has been solved, Trust in president restored and the puppy is back safe and healthy!

	President personally thanks you, You receive a promotion and a two weeks vacation for You accomplishment!

	The presidents daughter makes a selfie with You. On Instagram! Including the puppy, obviously! #mastermindgone #love #puppies 

	The Mastermind in exchange for a 3 months probation and public work, agrees to return the puppy & never commit crimes again!

	Great job .. Lead Investigator!


"Mastermind wins":
	With police off his back Mastermind successfully evades the punishment and enjoys his frivolous lifestyle for many years to come with zero responsibility as before! 

	Still... by now You've probably have hunch, that there is no such ending, right... RIGHT? 

	Why? Because police & Investigator will never stop! NEVER! Thats why! :)


Game Q&A:


Q: I don't understand. Can't Mastermind win? (ie. escape forever)?

A: No. Only to "stall" for a certain amount of time (by leaving trail full of other suspects, initially).

---

Q: Why does Mastermind does not receive info on all cross-references police is doing?

A: Yes, why not? Because it's done YOU! And you cannot be bought by Mastermind, obviously.. or at least he never bothered!
   
   Also, Clues "do not talk", only Suspects.

---

Q: What if Mastermind.... [put something here]

A: Yes, if it would be possible to receive info on all the police actions (ie. cross-referencing)
   	OR Investigator COULD NOT process MULTIPLE clues without Mastermind learning that fact, Mastermind's escape would be almost guaranteed, BUT ITS NOT THE CASE! 
    (ie. it's the 3x + 1, not the 3x - 1, 3x or 4x + 1 or smth else :)

---

Q: Why does it work like that?

A: Because for every of his action Investigator will advance forward for AT LEAST 1 Clue (ie. 1,2,3, ...), while Mastermind moves AT MOST 2 squares for every police Interrogation, thus allowing for Investigator to reach Mastermind eventually.

   Math: In essence adding two binary numbers of length up to N-bits, it'll only yield maximum number with N+1 bits, often same N bits (ie. Mastermind receiving or not always receiving the "police tip")

---

Q: How often does Mastermind receives police tips?

A: Depends on the "fragmentation" of the Evidence list. The more fragments, the least possibility.


----

Q: Why doesn't Mastermind just leave?

A: Don't know.. ask him yourself, if you catch him, that is!



Thank You & good luck playing "The Game of Investigator and Mastermind" whichever side you decide to play on!

